So let's hop into the code here and
the first thing is like I said,
we really want to think about
how we're gonna do that layout.
The sweet thing about Next.js is that
there's many ways to do layouts in
Next.js.
In React is actually quite simple
because you have access to
the entry level component
that you made in React.
So you can put whatever you want there.
Whereas in Next.js depending on,
if you haven't used Next.js then the way
that that works is each page is you can
opt into how you want to render each page.
You can either render it on the server,
you can render it on a client,
you can do static generation ahead of time
or you can do a hybrid of all of them.
There's like many different
ways you can do it.
So depending on that,
that's gonna determine how those
layout components actually behave.
So you might not be able to do
some of the same things you did
in React that you can do in Next.js.
So there is a couple ways
you can do it in Next.js and
then we're gonna go through the one
that I think is gonna work the best.
So the first thing we're gonna do is
actually install the UI library that we're
gonna be using because we're not gonna
make up all these components from scratch.
We would be here forever trying to do all
that stuff, so we're gonna work with a UI
lib that comes with a bunch of components
so that we can style them from there.
You should already have it installed
if you ran that NPM install thing.
If you go check your package JSON
is actually called Chakra UI.
They have a really great
documentation website.
I'm actually gonna head over there now so
you can take a look at it.
And the reason I chose this one because I
think they have a really good combination
of some really nice
components already created.
But also how you can enhance and
style those components is really cool.
One thing that I don't like about
component libraries is like,
you want to change the style
of this component?
Too bad, you can't.
Or, you got to import the CSS file,
which importing CSS files is not
the best way in my opinion to add CSS to
a JavaScript app because CSS is global and
they got a lot of problems there.
So I like to have my CSS scoped and
I really want to live as close
to the JavaScript as possible, if not in
a JavaScript, they allow us to do that so
we're gonna be using Chakra for
all of that.
So in order to install it,
this is a couple things we need to do.
Let's do the layout stuff, so
we'll head over to underscore app.
And again,
this is the entry part to our app,
this is where if you've ever used React,
there's this concept of providers.
A provider is just like a component that
provides context for your whole app.
Context is state that can be shared and
accessed at any component.
A provider just gives every
component rendered inside of
it access to that context.
So Chakra UI actually comes with
the provider that we'll be using, and
we can import that and
wrap our app inside of that.
So we'll import from what is it,
at Chakra UI React, and
what we wanna import is
gonna be Chakra provider.
So Chakra provider, and we're also gonna
do this other called extend theme,
because we have a mostly dark theme and
by default it's a light theme.
And some of their grays were really off
they were like bluish gray which is kind
of weird so I made them like real gray, so
we'll do that, we're gonna import that.
Another thing we're gonna import is gonna
be the reset CSS, so what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna get rid of this global
CSS that Next.js had imported at the top.
Like I said, we're not gonna use any of
the CSS that came with this scaffold, so
I'm just gonna get rid of that.
And instead of gonna import
something called reset CSS,
which should already be installed
from the package JSON that you had.
All this is gonna do is reset the CSS
to be the same in every single browser.
All browsers apply
default CSS differently.
This just resets it so that it's
all the same, so that'll do that.
And then the next thing I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna fix this theme from Chakra.
And the way that this works is I can make
a theme objects like so, so I'm gonna say
theme and it's going to extend
a theme which is gonna take an object.
And really the only things that I want
to change here are gonna be the colors.
So I'm gonna change some of the colors,
specifically the gray one, like I said,
it was like bluish gray and
I thought that was weird.
So what I did was I went to the Material
Design website that has all these colors,
and they had a really nice gray palette.
So I just copied all of those and I'm just
gonna add them here because I thought
those were more true to gray than
the bluish gray that Chakra had.
So the way that that works is you
give it a number like 100 and
then you give it a color.
So for 100, I'm gonna do,
I think this one is F5f5f5, like so.
And for 200 I'm gonna do EEEEEE.
And then for 300,
I think this one is gonna be E0E0E0.
And then for 400,
let's do BDBD, so BDBDBD.
And 500 is gonna be 9E9E9E.
600, this is gonna go all the way
up to 900 by the way, [LAUGH].
600 is gonna be 75 or,
yeah 757575, oops.
And 700 is gonna be 616161.
And 800 is gonna be 424242.
And then lastly 900 is gonna be 212121.
There we go.
So now we got some true grays in here.
The other thing I want to do is that,
for some reason, well,
I guess this makes sense but all of the
anchor tags, especially the button anchor
tags have the underlying on them,
and they have this weird shadow.
So I want to get rid of that too.
So the way that I can do that is I can
come down here and I can say, components,
not composition, but components like so.
And now this allows me to
extend any of the components.
I want to extend a Button
component with a capital B.
And I wanna change one of its variants.
So variance is like the type of button.
Most theming UI libraries have this
concept of variance where a variance
is like I have a big button,
a small button, a success button,
error button, all these different
variations of a button.
So I wanna change one of the variations
called the link variation.
So there's this concept
of a link button and
I wanna change that to where when
we focus on the link button,
I want to get rid of the outline that
it puts on it which is pretty gross.
So I'm gonna say none, and
then I want to add a box shadow or
I want to get rid of the box shadow
that's on it so I am gonna say none.
So just doing all that to adjust
the theme and with Chakra UI,
you can pretty much do whatever
you want with this theme.
You could put your own custom
color palette as you saw,
you can change all different variations,
you can make different variations,
you can do all types of wonderful stuff.
So I really like this component
live because it's super extensible.
And I'm gonna push this up to
GitHub after I've done too.
So if you don't get the exact colors down,
that's fine.
They're gonna come in handy later,
I mean your colors will just
be off until we get there.
So don't worry about trying
to get them all right now.
And then finally what we need to do
is we need to wrap our component in
the Chakra provider.
So I'm gonna say Chakra provider like so,
put our component back in there.
And then the last thing I need to do
is just parse the thing that we made,
was just gonna be theme like that.
Any questions on extending
the theme with Chakra UI?
And like I said, most component
lives follow this convention of
creating a theme file and then extending
it and adding it to a provider.
It's pretty common thing now so
it's not something unique to Chakra but
I think it's really cool.
>> [INAUDIBLE] accessibility
why is that doesn't seem
like a good idea to [INAUDIBLE] to focus?
>> Yeah, accessibility wise,
it probably isn't a good idea.
But at the same time, I'm following
the exact design that the Spotify app has.
So I guess Spotify doesn't
care about accessibility.